# Week 14 Day 4: React Context

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

As you go through the lectures and material for each day take notes in the
provided sections. Not every detail is covered in this file. It's up to you to
fill out this document with what you've learned as well as important material
from lectures and videos.

<br />
<hr />

## Morning Boost Lecture Review (of Wk14 D3)

- Which of the following statements accurately describes the difference between
  the useEffect hook with an empty dependency array and the useEffect hook with
  a dependency array?
  1. The useEffect hook with an empty dependency array only runs once when the
     component mounts, while the useEffect hook with a filled dependency array runs
     every time the pointers in the array are new refs in memory.
  2. The useEffect hook with an empty dependency array runs every time the
     component updates, while the useEffect hook with a filled dependency array only
     runs once when the component mounts.
  3. The useEffect hook with an empty dependency array runs every time the
     component mounts and every time it updates, while the useEffect hook with
     a dependency array only runs when the dependency array changes.
  4. The useEffect hook with an empty dependency array and the useEffect hook
     with a dependency array are identical in behavior and can be used
     interchangeably. <br></br>

- Which of the following statements accurately describes the purpose and
   behavior of the useState hook in React?
  1. It is used to create a new component in React and allows you to manage state and props.
  2. It is used to update the DOM after a component has been rendered and allows
     you to run side effects after rendering.
  3. It is used to control the flow of data between components in React and
     allows you to manage the lifecycle methods of a component.
  4. It is used to manage state in a functional component and allows you to
     trigger its component to rerender. <br></br>

- Which of the following statements accurately describes how to clean up a side
  effect created by useEffect in React?
  1. Return the cleanup function from the useEffect callback function.
  2. Add a cleanup function as a third argument to the useEffect hook.
  3. Wrap the useEffect hook with a try/catch statement to catch any errors and clean up the side effect.
  4. React automatically cleans up all side effects created by useEffect when the component unmounts. <br></br>

<br />
<hr />

## What is React Context?

- Previously, the only way to pass information from one component to another was through props. Context gives us another way.
- Context is a component that stores data and makes it available to all child components. Components can subscribe to this data through the `useContext` hook.
- The Context component itself is the Provider, and components that subscribe to context data are called Consumers.
- The Provider component accepts a mandatory prop called value which is usually an object, but you can assign it to anything.
- A React application can have many Context components that do specific things. It is common to see production applications with Contexts for themes, user auth data, language settings and other kinds of global data.
- Context is a powerful tool but may make component re-use more difficult if those components are subscribers. Not every component needs to subscribe to Context; use it in combination with props where needed. Props is your first tool to reach for when passing data around. If props and thoughtful component composition still doesn't solve your problem, then Context is probably your answer.

Simple usage (uncommon and inefficient. On value change, will cause all children components to rerender):

```js
import { createContext } from 'react';

const ExampleContext = createContext();

function RootComponent() {
  return (
    <ExampleContext.Provider value={{ someVal: 0 }}>
      <App />
    </ExampleContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

Create your own custom Provider component to keep children components from rerendering on value change.

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## Custom context provider (dynamic provider)

- A custom provider component allows you more functionality for your context.
- It is like any other component and thus can use React hooks for state and side effect management.
- You can pass useState setters into the value so subscribers can change context. This makes it dynamic.
- Can keep renders efficient by using `{props.children}` as the children of Context.Provider instead of a component. This way only the Provider and Subscriber components will rerender on value change, but non-subscribers will not rerender.
- You'll see custom provider components used the most often.

Syntax:

```js
import { createContext, useState } from 'react';

export const CountContext = createContext(props);

export default function CountProvider() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  return (
    <CountContext.Provider value={{ count, setCount }}>
      {props.children}
    </CountContext.Provider>
  );
}
```

And at the top of your application:

```js
import CountProvider from './CountContext';
import CountComponent from './CountComponent';

function App() {
  return (
    <CountProvider>
      <NonSubscriber />
      <CountComponent />
    </CountProvider>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## `useContext()`

- Allows a component to subscribe to context data.
- Create your own hook in your context provider file to eliminate needing to import `useContext` and `CountContext`.

Syntax:

```js
import { useContext } from 'react';
import { CountContext } from './CountContext';

export default function CountComponent() {
  // const [ count, setCount ] = useState(0);

  const { count, setCount } = useContext(CountContext);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to the Count Component</h1>
      <h2>The count is {count}</h2>
      <button
        type="button"
        onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}
      >
        Increment!
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

React context documentation: [https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="#readme-top">Back to the top</a>
</p>
<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>
