# Week 14 Day 2: React Components, JSX And Routing

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

As you go through the lectures and material for each day take notes in the
provided sections. Not every detail is covered in this file. It's up to you to
fill out this document with what you've learned as well as important material
from lectures and videos.

<br />
<hr />

## Morning Boost Lecture Review (of Wk14 D1)

- Why does React need a bundler program?
  1. To compress your files and create a distributable version of your code for production.
  2. Because bundles are awesome and everyone does it.
  3. Because React is only a library and needs Webpack to run.
  4. It doesn’t. Most companies don’t use production bundlers at all. <br></br>

- What is React’s Virtual DOM?
  1. The tree of react nodes used to represent what the Browser’s DOM should contain.
  2. A magical place where Harry Potter lives.
  3. A component that holds all of your app’s other components.
  4. React's algorithm that parses the browser DOM to determine which components
     should re-render.
  5. The tree of HTML nodes that the user sees in the browser. <br></br>

- What is create-react-app?
  1. A command line tool used to automate the setup of a React app.
  2. The only way to make a React application.
  3. It’s a new type of energy drink that allows react developers to experience.
    the sugar rush needed to code all day long.
  4. A phone app used by React developers who want to meet friends and write
    nerdy React code together. <br></br>
  
- How do you use the create-react-app cli tool?
  1. `create react app <destination name>`
  2. `npx create-react-app <destination-name>`
  3. `npx create-react-app <Destination Name>`
  4. `npx avada-kedavra-expelliarmus <destination-name>` <br></br>

- How does create-react-app automate a React project? What does it do? (free response)

- What is a Default Export when using ES Modules? (free response)

<br />
<hr />

## What is React?

- React is a JavaScript frontend library that builds webpages through a declarative, component based approach.
- Your entire React codebase is stored on your viewer's browser.

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## What are React components?

- React components are functions that return JSX. Components can accept a props object as its only argument.

Syntax:

```js
function ReactComponent(props) {
  return <h1>Hello World</h1>;
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## What is JSX?

- JSX is a language made for react to enable declarative programming of ui. It is written like HTML and has similar tags.
- A compiler library called Babel compiles JSX into React functions that create HTML for your browser to display.
- Use braces within JSX to use JavaScript.

Syntax:

- `<h1>My Awesome H1</h1>`
- `<ReactComponent newKey={propValue}></ReactComponent>`
- `<div>{variableOrExpressionWithReturn}</div>`

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## What are component props?

- React components are functions, and react calls these functions with one argument: a props object. We can define new key value pairs in this props object within JSX. Props' keys are optionally deconstructed when the component is defined.

Syntax:

```js
function ReactComponent(propsObject) {
  const { data } = propsObject;
  return <h1>{data}</h1>;
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## What is React Router?

- A library that keeps react components in sync with the url. It manages window location and dynamic route matching, and more.
- **This curriculum uses React Router version 5**

Syntax:

```js
function App({ data }) {
  return (
    <BrowserRouter>
      <Switch>
        <Route
          exact
          path="/profile/:userId"
        >
          <ProfileComponent data={data} />
        </Route>
      </Switch>
    </BrowserRouter>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## What is the `useParams()` hook from React Router and how does it allow you to use parameters in your route? What does it return?

- It enables you to extract wildcard values from your routes.
- `useParams()` returns an object with your route wildcard names as the key. We deconstruct the keys we need in our component.

Syntax:

- `const { userId } = useParams();`

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## What tools do you have to redirect a user?

- Redirect component
- useHistory hook

Syntax:

```js
function ProfileComponent({ user }) {
  if (!user) return <Redirect to="/login" />;

  const history = useHistory();

  const handleSubmit = (e) => {
    e.preventDefault();
    history.push('/new/page');
  };
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

React documentation: [https://reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org)

Babel documentation: [https://babeljs.io/](https://babeljs.io/)

React Router documentation: [https://v5.reactrouter.com/web/api/](https://v5.reactrouter.com/web/api/)

Helpful reference of React Router Documentation: [AAOpen React Router doc reference](https://open.appacademy.io/learn/js-py---mar-2022-cohort-1-online/week-14---react/router-documentation--recall-)

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="#readme-top">Back to the top</a>
</p>
<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>
