# Week 14 Day 3: React Hooks

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

As you go through the lectures and material for each day take notes in the
provided sections. Not every detail is covered in this file. It's up to you to
fill out this document with what you've learned as well as important material
from lectures and videos.

<br />
<hr />

## Morning Boost Lecture Review (of Wk14 D2)

- What is a component prop?
  1. A property that adds values to local component state.
  2. A property that lets you pass data to parent components.
  3. A property that lets you pass data to child components.
  4. A property that lets you nest components. <br></br>

- How can you create virtual DOM nodes for React?
  1. By writing JavaScript in the `<body>` of an HTML document.
  2. By writing XML syntax in a JavaScript file.
  3. By calling the renderAsHTML method available in React.
  4. By adding a JSX attribute to the HTML in your HTML documents.
  5. You don't. React does this for you automatically. <br></br>

- How does React use the Virtual DOM to update the real DOM?
  1. It refreshes the entire page and it makes only the necessary changes on the real DOM.
  2. It refreshes the entire page and it updates the entire real DOM.
  3. It uses a react method called updateRealDOM passing the virtual DOM as an argument.
  4. It uses an algorithm to check the differences between the real DOM and
    virtual DOM in order to decide what changes to make without refreshing the
    page. <br></br>
  
- Is it okay for a component to have multiple responsibilities?
  1. Yes, the less files you have the cleaner your file/folder structure will look.
  2. No, each component should have a Single Responsibility since each
    component can be used all over the app.
  3. It does not matter as long as the code works.
  4. Please don't look at my code! 😭  <br></br>

- What is JSX doing for us under the hood? (free response)

- What is React router? What does it do? (free response)

<br />
<hr />

## What are React hooks?

- Hooks are specialized React functions that allow you to access certain features of React. Most of the hooks you'll use in this course come from React and are ready to use. However, React does allow you to create your own hooks based on your application's needs.
- Remember, hooks are just functions. Some of them accept any value as an argument. Others require a callback function that returns a value, but returns nothing themselves. Still others take no argument at all and return one thing every time. Through practice you'll become familiar with each of these hooks during Mod 5.
- **Note**: Keep in mind that hooks that require a callback function as an argument are special. React takes your callback and puts it in the heap, storing it in an array behind the scenes. It then calls your callback during certain lifecycle events. Simply put, these callbacks are invoked by React according to its own timing.
- Because React retains strict control of when these hooks are activated, there are 2 simple rules we must remember when using them. React will throw errors if it detects improper usage of hooks.
- Rules of Hooks:
  - **Only Call Hooks at the Top Level**
    - Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions. Instead, always use Hooks at the top level of your React function, before any early returns.
  - **Only Call Hooks from within React Function Components**
    - An exception: you may call Hooks from custom Hooks: [custom hooks](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-custom.html).
- Names for hooks are always prefixed with the word 'use' and then a descriptive name, as seen below.

Hooks you'll use in Mod 5:

- `useState()`
- `useEffect()`
- `useContext()`
- `useHistory()`
- `useParams()`
- `useDispatch()`
- `useSelector()`

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## `useState()`

- This hook enables you to keep persistent data between renders. It is the most important React hook.
- It returns an array with two items: a current state value and a setter function.
- Invoked with an optional value which becomes the default. If no argument is provided, value will be undefined.
- Setter can take a callback as an argument. If it detects a callback, it will invoke that callback and pass in the current state as the argument.
- Invoking the setter with a callback can solve some race conditions.
- **useState causes re-render of your component if you call its setter with a new reference in memory.**
- Hooks are batched. This means only one render will happen per state change. This is by design and a performance constraint.

Syntax:

```js
function CountComponent() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
  const [value, setValueWithCallback] = useState([]);
  const [, setForceRender] = useState(0);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to the Count Component</h1>
      <h2>The count is {count}</h2>
      <h2>Object in state:: {JSON.stringify(value)}</h2>

      <button
        type="button"
        onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}
      >
        Increment!
      </button>
      <button
        type="button"
        onClick={() => setValueWithCallback((state) => [...state, newVal])}
      >
        Setter with callback!
      </button>
      <button
        type="button"
        onClick={() => setForceRender((state) => ++state)}
      >
        Force render!
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

## `useEffect()`

- Is primarily used if you want code to evaluate if an event happened or state changed in your component.
- useEffect always takes a callback. All logic you want to do will be defined in that callback.
- useEffect callbacks are invoked in order and managed by React's lifecycle.
- Your callbacks will always be invoked **after** its parent component function is invoked (rendered).
- There are three configurations for useEffect, all based on how you implement the dependency array (its second argument).
  - run the callback on every render: `useEffect(() => {})`
  - run the callback only on mount: `useEffect(() => {}, [])`
  - run the callback when state or props change: `useEffect(() => {}, [state, props])`
- useEffect's callback can return an optional callback. This configuration is used to perform cleanup or cancel I/O before the component unmounts and is destroyed.
- You may call useState setters within useEffect.

Syntax:

```js
function CountComponent() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  useEffect(() => {
    console.log('useEffect with no dependency array');
  });

  useEffect(() => {
    console.log('useEffect with empty dependency array');
  }, []);

  useEffect(() => {
    console.log('useEffect tracking count, count:: ', count);
  }, [count]);

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Welcome to the Count Component</h1>
      <h2>The count is {count}</h2>
      <button
        type="button"
        onClick={() => setCount(count + 1)}
      >
        Increment!
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Extra Notes:

- < your notes here >

<br>
<hr>

React hooks documentation: [https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html)

Custom hooks documentation: [https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-custom.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-custom.html)

Rules of hooks documentation: [https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-rules.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-rules.html)

React event-handling documentation: [https://reactjs.org/docs/handling-events.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/handling-events.html)

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="#readme-top">Back to the top</a>
</p>
<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>
