# Week 14 Day 5: React Practice Assessment

<a name="#readme-top"></a>

<p align="right" style="font-size:10px">
  <a href="./README.md">Back to learning objectives README.md</a>
</p>

As you go through the lectures and material for each day take notes in the
provided sections. Not every detail is covered in this file. It's up to you to
fill out this document with what you've learned as well as important material
from lectures and videos.

<br />
<hr />

## Morning Boost Lecture Review (of Wk14 D4)

- React has many different hooks. Which hook is needed to cause your local
  component to re-render when context state changes?
  1. Call `useState`'s setter function to get the component to re-render.
  2. Have a `useEffect` tracking your context pointers to automatically trigger
     a re-render.
  3. The `useContext` hook, or a custom hook using `useContext`, will
     automatically trigger the component to re-render if context state changes.
  4. The `createContext` hook will cause your local component to automatically re-render if
     context state changes. <br></br>

- When Context is wrapped around the entire application (aka the App Component),
  what are the pointers stored in the value prop considered?
  1. Local variables.
  2. Global variables.
  3. Instance variables.
  4. Private variables. <br></br>

- When do `useEffect` cleanup functions run?
  1. Only when its component unmounts.
  2. They always run on after every re-render.
  3. They automatically run when a `fetch` in the component fails.
  4. They always run before their `useEffect`s run again. <br></br>

- What causes a component to re-render?
  1. The reconciliation algorithm runs when props or state change.
  2. `useEffect` tracking a `useState` pointer.
  3. It will always re-render when the user fires an event handler.
  4. Whenever you invoke a `useState` setter function.
  5. Whenever you invoke a `useState` setter function and pass in a new ref in
     memory.
  6. `useEffect` will automatically re-render the component. <br></br>
  
- What is prop drilling, and how does React Context help remedy this? (free
  response)
